---
layout: post
title: Point cloud model to mesh model
moto: 客舍青青柳色新
date: 2017-08-29 09:57:01 +0800
categories: document
tag: 3D reconstruction
---

* content
{:toc}

多一个想法和支持,心里就不会觉得绝望
# Structure from motion with [visualsfm](http://ccwu.me/vsfm/)

you can also find a [64-bit windows version with cuda as well as the pmvs](https://pan.baidu.com/s/1qY2WTek) with the code of uaxa

[smart3D](https://pan.baidu.com/s/1i5QRImx) with the code of 7xrb

A sparse point cloud model can be generated by the visualsfm. Furthermore, a dense point cloud model can be genearted with the pmvs or cmvs program. However, these point cloud model are still less beautiful than the 3D surface model.

To this end, I will list some steps for construct the surface model with the results of the visualsfm and the dense point cloud model.

# 3D surface model reconstruction

### File/ Open Project 

choose the **bundle.rd.out** file first and choose the **list.txt** file.

### File/ Import Mesh

choose the dense point cloud model .ply file

### Clear the vertices with the select and delete vertices.

{% include image.html url="/assets/3Dreconstruction/modelReconstruction1.png" description="Fig. 1. Clear the vertices with the select and delete vertices." %}

### Filter / Point Set / Surface Reconstruction: Poisson 

with the octree Depth with 10 or larger.

### Filter / Selection / Select faces with edges longer than

{% include image.html url="/assets/3Dreconstruction/modelReconstruction2.jpg" description="Fig. 2. Delete the redundant faces." %}

### Filters –> Selection –> Select Non-Manifold edges

delete the non-manifold edges

### Filter –> Texture –> Parameterization from registered rasters

### Filter –> Texture –> Project active rasters color to current mesh, filling the texture

Texture projection. Set the pixel size of the texture image, the larger the clearer.

we can set the value as 512, 1024, 2048, ...

### Export Mesh as...

{% include image.html url="/assets/3Dreconstruction/modelReconstruction3.jpg" description="Fig. 3. The result of the mesh model." %}

That's all.

ref [http://blog.csdn.net/lhanchao/article/details/52238470](http://blog.csdn.net/lhanchao/article/details/52238470)

